<!-- https://www.bigocheatsheet.com/ -->
<!-- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BgLTDT03QtU -->

Big O
Complexity
Description

O(1)
constant
The runtime is constant regardless of the size of the input. Finding an element in a hash table is an example of an operation that can be performed in constant time.

O(n)
linear
The runtime grows linearly with the size of the input. A function that checks a condition on every item of a list is an example of an O(n) algorithm.

O(n2)
quadratic
The runtime is a quadratic function of the size of the input. A naive implementation of finding duplicate values in a list, in which each item has to be checked twice, is an example of a quadratic algorithm.

O(2n)
exponential
The runtime grows exponentially with the size of the input. These algorithms are considered extremely inefficient. An example of an exponential algorithm is the three-coloring problem.

O(log n)
logarithmic
The runtime grows linearly while the size of the input grows exponentially. For example, if it takes one second to process one thousand elements, then it will take two seconds to process ten thousand, three seconds to process one hundred thousand, and so on. Binary search is an example of a logarithmic runtime algorithm.

<!-- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_O_notation#Orders_of_common_functions -->

O(1) space
constant amount of extra space for storing temporary variables.

O(n) space
An algorithm with O(n) space complexity means that the amount of additional space required by the algorithm grows linearly with the size of the input.

Here are a few examples of algorithms with O(n) space complexity:

Storing elements in an array: If you need to store n elements in an array, the space complexity would be O(n) since the size of the array grows linearly with the number of elements.

Creating a linked list: If you create a linked list with n nodes, the space complexity would be O(n) since each node requires memory allocation.

Using a stack or queue: If you use a stack or queue to store n elements, the space complexity would be O(n) since the space required increases linearly with the number of elements.

Merging two sorted arrays: If you merge two sorted arrays into a new array, the space complexity would be O(n) since the resulting merged array will have n elements.

These are just a few examples, but any algorithm that requires additional space proportional to the input size (n) would have O(n) space complexity.
